We'd go to Bryan, or we'd go to Navasota, or the
other town down there. Huntsville, maybe? No, no.
Huntsville was too difficult to get to. Navasota
and . . . Wellburn, it's between, but that's not
even a town. No, there's two towns there.
You had pretty good train connections to
Navasota, did you? Oh, yeah, perfect. And on the
Bryan, I presume you rode the trolley. Yeah. Was it
electric when you were there, or was it gasoline?
No, I believe it was electric. Did you go to Bryan
very often? No. Well, as a freshman, I imagine you
wouldn't go. You would not have been able to go as
often as .. Well, I didn't want to go. There wasn't
anything to go for.
What was the attitude of the students to the
administration? This would have been both to
President Bezell and to the commandant. Very
good, very good. Who was the commandant?
Was Ike Ashburn there while you were there? Yeah,
he was there, but I don't believe he was
commandant. He was commandant, and he had been
there for a number of years. Was he an annual head?
Was it money changed to leave by G. Brown? No. Brown
was their hill? No. OK, those are two that were
about that period. It must have been a high
casualty. I bet you. A high casualty. That's who it
was.
One of the things that I feel that makes A&M an
interesting school and somewhat unique in the
number of traditions that are carried on at this
point largely through the Corps of Cadets, but in a
sense by the whole student body. And that's such
things as yell practice, silver taps, the
bonfire, the annual muster, and so forth. Do you
recall any of these being carried on while you were
there? Oh, yeah, the bonfire. Oh, you can't miss
that. What kind of bonfire did you build while you
were there? Just old trees and things. We built up
some big ones down by the Y. Oh, terrific. Where did
you have your bonfire? Down by the Y.
That would have been across from the drill field
then? Well, no. Mitchell, in there between
Mitchell and the Y. Oh, OK. Nowadays, they build
them over on the inner mural. Oh, let's see. It's
changed up so much. It used to be those streets,
pretty narrow. There wasn't all that finery. We
didn't have much finery. Pretty plain. I've seen
pictures of the campus at that point. Were there
any students living in tents during the year or so
that you were there? I don't think so. You know, I
hear some talk and everything, but I don't think
so. I don't think there's anyone in tents when I was
there. Did you have a muster? Oh, yeah. In April,
the same day that they have the muster today. Yeah,
yeah, you bet.
And At various times, we know that there were a few
girls who would attend classes. These would be
daughters or sisters or something, a faculty
member. Were there any girls in any of the classes
when you were there? Quite a few girls worked
there, but none of them went to any classes with me.
We know that a lot of times the students had a
part-time job. And I know you had a good bit of
experience working in your father's
establishment. Did you ever have a job while you
were at school the year you were there?
As far as I'm concerned, there wasn't anything I
could do. What I mean, there wasn't anything
available for me. I see.
Have you found who the commandant was?
This is probably the... You talk about a fine man,
that J.W. Grace. He was one of the nicest looking
men. That Tim Griesenbeck was something. He was a
football player. That's the Longhorn staff
there, I see.
Yeah, Brazil.
Crane. Colonel Crane was commandant. He had been
there earlier, I believe. Yeah, but he left, I
guess, in 17. Yes, I remember him. He was quite old.
Earlier, you indicated that in about October of
1918, Your father calls you home because of an
illness of your brother, and you never went back to
school after that. Right. When you went back home
then, did you go back to work for your father? No, I
went to farming. My brother had about 200 acres of
wheat that hadn't quite finished planting, and I
just took over, and I guess I farmed for...
Two years. This was in the vicinity of Wills Point?
In Wills Point. Yeah, two miles out. So you did
wheat farming for two years. And cotton. And
cotton. What did you do after that tenure? I left
and went over to Cooper, Delta County, and went to
work for a contractor hauling with mules and wagon
hauling, concrete aggregate to build the county
bridges. And that's the time that I met Mr. P.B.
Keller, who was Helen Keller's brother. He became
the vice president of Gifford Hill for so many
years, a real fine man.
For how long did you work? Just one year. One year.
Then I came back home and farmed two years. Then I
went to work for Gifford Hill and Company. Okay.
Now, was Gifford Hill, was that a Mr. Gifford and a
Mr. Hill? Right. That's right. Was the Hill one of
your brothers? Right. Which one was that? Birch,
the oldest one. One was 16. He was class of 16. 13.
13. 13. And did you work, how long did you work for
Gifford Hill? Well I started to work for him the
first day of July and Gifford Hill made the
corporation the 10th of July and I worked for him
till the fifth day of January, 32. And then I bought
I was superintendent in Louisiana through the
long days, and we were taking script for money, and
I bought 30 head of mules, a shovel, a road camp, a
tent, you know, where the people lived, and a cook
shack, Fresno's, blacksmith shop,
all for $1,500. I bought the job and all. and the man
just got in his car and drove across. Didn't go down
the road. He went right out across the woods. And 32
was a very bad year financially. There just wasn't
any money. Well, was Gifford Hill primarily a road
construction? No. Railroad and sand and gravel.
Railroad. I was the only one that did the road
construction. I subbed from them, see, and that's
the reason I never owned any stock in Gifford Hill,
any part of it, so I could trade with my brother at
arm length.
So in 32, then, you bought out. Right. What name did
you give to your company when you bought out? No, I
worked in Gifford Hill's name. They were supposed
to own it. I was just superintendent. I see. You
bought it in their name. No, I bought it in my name,
but as far as the record's concerned, we had two
sets of books. Gifford Hill had one in the Dallas
office, and I had my own in the field. But see, that
way, at that time, the engineers were rather...
I'd say slightly Nixon, pro-Nixon, they had to
hand out. And as it was, as I was superintendent, I
had no means of giving them any money. They
couldn't get to Dallas, the Dallas office. So that
went on from 1932 to 1948. And my brother never
closed his door in the office up there. It was
always open. unless it was something special. So
one day I went in and he said, son, close the door. I
closed the door. He says, you have to leave Gifford
Hill. I said, have I done something wrong? He said,
no. He said, some of the contractors say are saying
that we give you the sand and gravel and the pipe is
the reason you can beat them on the jobs, and you're
hurting our business. Said, you have some good
equipment, some good people, and you just go in
your own name. But he says, you don't have any
credit. I said, I don't need any credit. We was
living in Sherman at that time, and I said,
$183,000 of E-bonds paid for. And I checked my bank
account yesterday, and I had about $195,000 in it.
He said, you don't understand. You can't buy
anything. He said, you go to the M&P Bank, the
president's a real good friend of yours, and you
borrow $50,000 for 30 days and pay him the interest
and pay it back, which I did. And he said, then you go
back in there the next day And you borrow $100,000
for 30 days, and you pay them back. I couldn't
understand why I'd be paying Interstone money
when I had all that money in that bank account. But
then I'd establish my credit, which is a rather
unusual way to do it. Yeah. But you had never had
occasion to borrow any money prior to that. I
didn't. I wanted to work and give a real name
because I got all their buying power. And if I
needed $50,000, that's all I'd do right there. And
in Dallas, deposit $50,000 in a certain bank
wherever I was doing bidding. And then, of course,
the estimate was in Gifford Hill's name and went to
them. In Dallas, I never touched any money except
write to payroll and draw what money I had to have to
live on.
So what took place then in 48? Oh, I did real good.
Did you then kind of sever connections with
Gifford Hill? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. They just
didn't bid for me. I bid in my own name. You bid in
your own name. Yeah, I had to. I bid in my own name.
But up to that time, even though it was really your
own company, if you were going to bid on a job to
build a road or something, you would bid in the name
of Gifford Hill. Oh, yes, yes. Did that so I could
have their buying power, and then the people
couldn't touch me that... Since I was a
superintendent, I wasn't supposed to give them
anything. You say the engineers were looking for a
handout. I don't want to say too much about that.
But, see, we worked in Louisiana, Arkansas,
Mississippi, and everything, and they were
really tough. In fact, if you cut that off one
minute, please, so I don't want to get this on.
Well, one of the most interesting things, I think,
that happened in all our life, we were living in
Henderson, Texas, and I was out on a job, and my
brother called my wife and told me, told her that we
must move to Sherman, Texas. That day, they had
gotten Perrin Field. Perrin Field was the first
area of fields that they built in the south before
Pearl Harbor. We started on the fourth day of July
and finished up, oh, I'd say the latter part of
October before Pearl Harbor. Well, no, the latter
part of November, and then December the 7th, Pearl
Harbor. And then at that time, we were working in
Dallas building that North American plane plant
parking area and the building and all. So you were
involved in the construction of Perrin Field. I
built half of it. You had the contract. Yeah,
Gifford Hill. Gifford Hill had the contract.
Yeah, but I owned this outfit at that time, 41. But
Bell and Braden at that time were in Amarillo, and
it was a mile square. So we cut it in two halfway from
the east to the west, and I took the south end. And we
moved, oh, about 4 million yards of dirt there. And
at that time, there's no way to buy any equipment.
It was all frozen. And we had to lease it, borrow it,
do anything we could. But we made it. After
48, when your brother called you in and said you
were going to have to leave Gifford Hill, did you
then give your company your own name? Oh, yeah.
E.B. Hill. E.B. Hill. E.B. Hill Contractor. It's
not a stock company. No, no. Owned every bit of it.
So then we had an opportunity to buy the
Caterpillar dealership here in Amarillo from
R.B. George in Dallas. And my last job was at Lufkin
in 51. And then I started selling my equipment
there. And we bought a Caterpillar deal here in
Amarillo, which was West Texas Equipment
Company, a corporation. And I owned about 51% of
it, and this partner in Amarillo owned part of it.
And then the little manager out here owned, I
think, 15 shares, something like that. 2,000
shares, what it was. And then we ran that for, say,
to 66, I think. And then I had some trouble with my
heart. And my doctor told me, EB, you have too much
pressure on you, you're going to die. And my heart
was 2 and 1 half inches too large. So he gave me two
years to sell out. And
after a year, then my heart was back normal. And
I've been doing real good since. So you're still in
the Caterpillar dealership? No, no, no. You sold
that out? I'm in the finance business. I'm
financing some of the customers, the good
customers I had out there, not so much as I was. I
like the CDs now better than the other. At 11.5%
interest. Where can you get a CD for 11.5%? I get
them all the time. Well, it depends. If you have
enough to invest, I presume. Yeah, you've got to
have 100,000.
What would you say was your biggest job you ever
handled in contracting? Oh, the parent field. The
parent field was. But the best job I ever had in my
life, if you have been over from the Parker County
line eight miles to Weatherford, And down the
bottom, there's these twin bridges, you know,
right? They're beautiful. And pecan trees all
around them and everything. I built that in 1938.
And the equipment was very hard to come by. And that
was the first time I'd ever been west of Fort Worth.
Because a rock would tear your equipment up so bad,
I stayed back in the dirt. But I had a $282,000 job,
and it was cheap. 50 cent rock, 15 cent dirt, $15
concrete. It was cheap. So I had four contractor
friends told me that says, you can't do it for that
money. I said, oh, yes, I'm going to do it. I said,
Gifford Hill's going to make bond, and I'm going to
build the job. And I made 60. I bought it. and paid
for everything on the job and made $64,000 cash.
And that kicked me over. Then we moved to Henderson
and got about a million and a quarter yards of dirt.
Did real good on it. And then from then on, we could
see daylight. But we had some pretty tough times.
Well, getting started, when you did in one of the
worst economic periods we've ever had, Yeah, see,
I went through 1919 and 1929. And at the time when 29
came, it never did bother us. We were building.
I
was
building. I was superintendent for Gifford Hill.
We built 144 miles, the Cotton Belt Railroad from
Mount Pleasant to Corsicana, moving about four
and a quarter million yards of dirt. We did it with
mules, tractors, drag lines, shovels, every
means in the world. Dump cars. And we did 50 and 60
foot cuts under traffic. We had to carry the
traffic as well as, What we'd do, we'd take a cut
through and lay what we called a shoe fly track
around and put the traffic over there and tear up
this line and then go down with the cut and just
crisscross that away. Lots of track land and stuff
like that. But we had five big outfits there. And
then in the 31, after everyone else had really hit,
Gippert Hill wound up with a world of equipment. No
money. So I
was making $450 a month, an automobile, an expense
account. And my brother called me to Dallas, took
my car, my expense account, and cut my salary to
$175 a month. It says go to Bell's, Tennessee.
That's right near Jackson. It's 90 miles to the
other side of Memphis, Tennessee. And when I came
home, I told my wife, my brother has to do this to me.
I'll never work for another person. So it wasn't
much over a year from then until I got my own out
there. And I did real well.
How much of a problem was it taking care of a whole
bunch of mules that you used on your construction
job when you first started? Well, it wasn't any
problem at all. We had plenty of labor. What was
wrong? when it rained for 10 days or something like
that, and you couldn't. And then every time that
rain would hit the roof, I'm pardoned, no more
sleep for me that night. I spent lots of sleepless
nights, that's all. There's no problem. Keeping
the meals calm? Keeping them fed. Doctoring them
all night. Work them all day, and then we'd stay up
all night and doctor them. Crush ice and put on
their heads. Louisiana is terrible, you know, to
have a brain concussion. I had three young mules
that I'd bought, and I watched them. I'd stand them
so I could watch them. When they make them a step,
you know that they're getting too hot. But I had a
man with a five-gallon bucket at one end and five
gallons at the end, and it hit their nostrils.
Every load, it was dusty. And I saw this mule make a
misstep. And before I could get... They were about
four of them here to the guest house down there.
Before I could get two of them, all three of them
dropped dead in the harness. That's hard to take.
That's one of the things I wouldn't want to go back
through. What would you say would be some of the
principal developments in the technology of road
building during the time that you were involved in
road building? Well, there was every change in the
world. Of course, we started out a little slip, you
know, with two handles and two mules. That's where
we removed most of the dirt. Then we came to the
Fresno, you know, that has the dump. And then we
came to what they call the wheelers. That was the
worst piece of machinery in the world because the
weight of all that dirt and everything were right
on these mules' necks, and there's no way to
protect it. Oh, their necks got so bad. I never
owned one. I said I'll never put one of my mules to
that torture to have a wheeler. I've never used a
wheeler. I've used a slip in a Fresnel. Yeah, well,
a wheeler, That tongue, they've got to hold that.
And if that dirt is out here, all that weight's
right on that tongue. And the only way in the world
to hold it up is for those mules' necks. It's just
terrible.
So you've come from that to really heavy equipment
to move whatever you need to move. Yeah, we started
out, the first tractor I ever had was what they call
a 60. That's an old, well,
kind of the chug-a-lug type, you know. Then in
1935, I bought my first diesel, diesel 50. It
was... 50 horsepower, is the reason they call it
that. And of course, it was quite something,
getting away from the gasoline and burning
diesel. Much cheaper and much better operated. It
runs smoother. When,
uh... Did you ever have anything very much to do
with the design of a road? Oh, no. I worked for the
engineers when I was a kid, 15, 16 years old. County
engineers, you know, set stakes, and then when it
rained, we'd have to work in the office, you know,
and figure the volume, you know. Yes, I've done
some engineering quite a bit. But not after you had
gone to A&M. You were always involved in
construction work. Never had anything to do with
it. The knowledge of being a contractor and
starting out like we did is being able to know
people, to know the ability of what they can do and
get out of them what you should. And a lot of people
don't know that. A lot of people think that people
can just work continuously and never have to get up
for breath, but that's not true. Man has to rest a
little bit once in a while. And then some people can
do some things and some people can't do things.
Some people can use a shovel and others can't use a
shovel. Some of them can use a hoe and some of them
can't use it. Some of them can use a axe. And I think
being able to know what a person can do helps you a
lot in the construction business. And another
thing, I'm always, my organization, I take great
pride that I don't believe that we ever put a yard of
dirt in our life the wrong place. When we picked it
up, we put it where it belonged. You knew where it
was going before you picked it up. Right. That was
number one. Now, this superintendent, he's my
bookkeeper now. We were born and reared about six
blocks from each other. My birthday is the 1st of
December. His is the 16th of January. I'm that much
older than you. But a scraper could come by him with
a $2,500 tire on just flat, and he couldn't see it.
But if that man had come by with a half a load of dirt,
he'd just have a tantrum. And that's just part of
it.
didn't come by with a half full. It had to be all the
way full. Right. Right. And it had to go the right
place. Well, I imagine it costs just about as much
to move it when it's half full as it does when it's
all the way full. Right. At that man's time and that
gas fuel and everything, it's just got to be sure
that they're loaded. Yeah.
Since you've been out of the Caterpillar
dealership, what have you been involved in?
Financing. Financing the customers of the
Caterpillar. Right. Are you involved in any kind
of social or political activities? Not much. Not
much. Not political. I have a lot of friends in
politics that I admire, but I've never been
involved. in politics, and they were so desired.
Earlier, you mentioned, I believe, while we had
the machine off, that you went to London with the
Former Students Association. Oh, yes. Was that a
pretty enjoyable trip? Wonderful. Wonderful.
Have you done much other foreign travel? Oh, yes.
Well, earlier you said you had a... A boy from Lima,
Peru that you tried to go see a couple of years ago,
and he passed away. We have a granddaughter that
lives in Venezuela. Caracas. We spent 17 days
there in February. We're going back and spending
Christmas. We can't. Here, you have to be gone in
the winter months and see the first of April. This
garden and this yard, from then to the first of
November, you might say, you're tied. It's a
full-time job. Well, you can't get any help here.
You can get a help here and pay them $2.50 an hour and
give them their time, pay them their time while
they're eating lunch, feed them. Next week, they
won't be back. There's more work here than there
are people to do it. I believe at one point you said,
what, you have four daughters? Three. Three
daughters. And how many grandchildren? Ten
grandchildren. Seven little girls and three
little boys. But you had no son of your own? No. I had
a redefined son-in-law that was in Venice with me
out there, and he was killed two years ago in July.
He was a shell jobber in Wichita Falls and that.
Charlotte's taken it over and just made a terrific
success of it. She has a 16-year-old boy and a
14-year-old boy and a 12-year-old girl. So your
daughters have some of your business equivalent,
too? She is quite a business figure. And our oldest
daughter, she's married to a dentist over here.
She had one of the brightest minds as far as
figures, you know, about paying bills.
I have to show you this.